Sometimes you want global styles.
Sometimes you want to maybe reset or
normalize your UI.
So let's go ahead and
install a really cool package.
So open your terminal.
We're gonna save npm i, so npm install,
polished, it's called polished.
So let me go to the site, so polished.
If you look this up,
we get a bunch of nail salons.
So it's Polished.js.org.
Okay, this has a ton of really cool
features that you can use with your code.
Something that might be really
useful is visually hide,
I think it was called, let me see.
Hide visually, this is so
great for accessibility.
If you need to add additional text,
like a hidden description for
assistive technology,
hiding something visually is really hard.
You can't write display none.
It'll remove that from the document and
it won't be wrote allowed.
So having these little tools
that you can use to do things,
we're gonna use normalize.
These are really useful and
we're gonna use them just like a function
call within our curly brackets.
Okay, so Polished has now been installed.
I'm gonna go back to
a full screen on this.
So inside of utils,
let's add a new file called Global.js.
I'm going to capitalize it cuz we're gonna
instantiate it like a react component or
like an HTML component, so Global.js.
And we're gonna import three things.
So import createGlobalStyle,
From styled components.
We'll import our primary font.
Now, we can't, since this is in the same
directory as the typography file,
we can't just say, import primary
font from this current directory.
That's not gonna work.
You actually do have to say
typography in this case
because it's in the same directory.
And let's import our normalized
function from Polished.
Okay, let's get rid of this.
So, let's create a constant and
let's export it,
export const GlobalStyle and
it's gonna use createGlobalStyle.
Two backticks, and in here we're going
to essentially write all of our CSS that
we want applied globally.
The first thing we wanna
do is normalize our code.
So again, we've got our dollar sign
curly brackets to evaluate this,
we're just gonna call normalize
just like a function call.
So that's gonna normalize all of our code.
I'm gonna add a couple more things.
So on our HTML element,
let's first set font size to 16 pixels.
So this is how you would set
the default font size and
when we use our REM values now they're
gonna be evaluated against the 16 pixels.
We're gonna do box-sizing border-box.
So what this does is if you have
padding and margin and you set
a specific width and height, and let's say
I set a width of 300 pixels on my button.
But I've also set, or
let's say it's a Max width, right?
I set max width of 300 pixels on my
button, but I also have padding and stuff.
What that's gonna do,
box-sizing border-box is gonna say
no matter what padding or margin or
whatever is added to this element,
it can be no bigger than 300 pixels.
If you don't use this sometimes when you
add padding and margin, it might push
the boundaries above the 300 pixels and
so this is really gonna prevent that.
It's gonna say maximum no matter
what padding margin width,
whatever you have on here,
keep it within the box, okay?
Here we're going to select three things.
We're going to select all, all before, and
another pseudo element, which is after.
We're just gonna say box-sizing inherit.
So from the parent element,
which in this case is HTML,
just inherit that box-sizing value.
On our body I'm gonna
set a margin of 0 and
I'm gonna set font family to our font,
font-family to our primaryFont.
So all of our body content will
inherit our primary font now.
And the last thing, I'm just gonna
set this on my main just for
display purposes, but
I'm gonna set a width of 90% and
a margin of 0 auto, so
it should center things, okay?
So we've got some global styles.
We need to add this to our index export
here so we can just import it from utils.
So export star from Global.
So let's go ahead and actually use this.
Let's go back to our
index file in the source,
in the root of the source where we
instantiate all of our components.
So import Global, I'm gonna
call it GlobalStyle from utils.
And all you need to do is the last
element is just render it, so
GlobalStyle, just like that,
just a self closing tag.
And if we come back here now,
ideally we should see
that should be added.
Let's test that real quick
as it's being added.
Let's set a padding, I don't know.
So yeah, we can see our
GlobalStyle's now being added, okay?